## Abstract {#abstract}

Antimicrobial resistance (AMR) is a severe and growing global health crisis.
Infections by resistance bacteria are increasing worldwide and these resistant infections lead to greater mortality and morbidity.
Improving surevillance of circulating genetic determinants and their relative expression has been identified as fundamental for mitigating this crisis.
While newer high-throughput sequencing of genomes and metagenomes is becoming an increasingly routine source for this data, it is still technically and fiscally expensive for regular surveillance efforts.
This is particularly true for the low-resource settings in which AMR is having the most acute impact on public health.
Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) amplification offers a well-established, cheap, and effective way of assessing the presence of specific known AMR determiants within a sample.
Additionally, quantitative PCR combined with reverse-transcription can be used to measure the expression level of given gene offering a major advantage over genomic (if not transcriptomic) approaches.
However, the draw-back is relatively lower throughput and the requirement to design amplification primers which are complementary to the individual AMR gene or AMR gene family.
To combat this major international efforts have led to the development of standardised primers such as those published by the European Union's Consortium on Antibiotic Susceptibility Testing (EUCAST).

The Comprehensive Antibiotic Resistance Database (CARD) is a high-quality manually curated database of known canonical AMR determinants.
Recently, using the Resistance Gene Identifier (RGI) genomic AMR prediction tool they have performed resistome predictions across X genomes encompassing all ESKAPE and WHO priority bacteria currently deposited in public sequencing databases.
This has greatly expanded the recorded allelic diversity of known AMR genes, offering a great resource for the evaluation of current detection methods.
Therefore, using a recently developed in-silico primer assessment tool, VAware, we sought to determine how well these standarised EUCAST primers sets actually capture the diversity of their targeted AMR gene/family.

Overall, only X% of targeted AMR genes were perfectly amplified by their standardised primers. 
Perhaps, more worryingly Y% of primers had no detectable homology to 
The primer sets for critical carbapenemase genes would successfully amplify the majority of their targets, however, tetracyline resistance genes were very poorly amplified.
This work highlights both the need and utility of curating expanded allelic diversity within AMR databases such as CARD.
It also underscores the requirement of regular primer re-assessment in effectively using PCR for AMR surveillance.
