## Materials and Methods {#methods}

All analyses presented in this paper can be reproduced and inspected using the Jupyter (version XX) [citation] notebook (AMR\_PCR.ipynb) within the associated github repository (https://github.com/fmaguire/AMR\_PCR).
The specific code version used for this paper is also archived under DOI:XXXYYY.

### Database
CARD version XX [citation] was downloaded from https://arpcard.mcmaster.ca/downloads along with CARD prevalence dataset version XX.
These were then parsed using a custom "CARD" python class found in the "amr\_pcr.py" script.
All canonical and prevalence CARD sequences were then concatenated into a single fasta file.

The EUCAST standarised primers were downloaded (https://www.eurl-ar.eu/CustomerData/Files/Folders/25-resourcer/333\_primerliste-til-web-07-11-2013-9.pdf)
Unfortunately, as these were only available as a PDF some post-processing was required to modify these into a machine-readable format.
Firstly, optical character recognition was performed on the downloaded PDF using the 'tabula' tool (version X) [Citation].
Then, the resulting tab-seperated variable (TSV) plaintext file was manually tidied using the pandas library (version y) [citation] and the "read\_primers" function of "amr\_pcr.py".
This code was also then used to manually relate the listed primer name to the corresponding gene or set of gene names (in the case of family or group specific primers) using the CARD database.
The CARD's underlying antibiotic resistance ontology (ARO) was fundamental to this process due to the prevalence of synonyms and alternative gene names.
The species specific primers for Methicillin-Resistance _Staphylcoccus Aureus_ were dropped from the table as well as those for "BIC" as no corresponding CARD entry could be found.

### VAware
VAware version 0.0.1 was downloaded and compiled from the github repository (URL).
As VAware assesses a single pair of primers per run a wrapper script was used to call VAware for every pair of EUCAST primers against the whole dataset of CARD's canonical and prevalence nucleotide sequences (regardless of detection model). 
This script was generated using the "build\_vaware\_script function in the "amr\_pcr.py" module.
VAware was run using 3 threads and a mismatch distance limit of 4 from the 3' end.
The full set of AMR gene sequences was used instead of just the sequences corresponding to the particular primer set being evaluated in order to identify cases of erroneous off-target amplification.
Specifically, to asssess whether those primers inadvertently amplify AMR genes other than those they were designed to target.
The output tables for VAware were then combined using pandas ("parse\_all\_data" function in "amr\_pcr.py").

VAware determines the number of matches, gaps, overall mismatches, and 3' mismatches for the reverse and forward primers. 
It also identifies the total insert size between the best alignment for the forward and reverse primers.
However, in and of itself it provides no evaluation for how likely an amplification is to work.

To assess this the following distinction was made alignment gaps and mismatches at the 3' of a primer was classifed as a major mismatch while all other msimatches between primer and template sequence were classified as minor mismatches.
If a given template had an insert length under 1500bp and no major or minor mismatches in either primer it was classified as 'Perfect'.
Those with fewer than 3 minor mismatches in total across both primers and an insert size of <1500bp were classed as "Intermediate", whereas those with 2-4 minor mismatches were considered "Low" quality.
If there were 5 or more total minor mismatches it was considered to be a failed amplification and was thus classified as "Missed".
The presence of a single major mismatch (i.e. a gap or 3' mismatch) was sufficient to classify the amplification as "Low" quality.
Those with more than 1 major mismatch were considered as likely to fail and therefore were classed "Missed".
Finally, those alignments that showed a total insert size >=1500bp were automatically classes as "Missed" regardless of the number and type of mismatches in the primer binding sites.

### Evaluation

The resulting classified output was parsed and summarised in the notebook (AMR\_PCR.ipynb) using the pandas (version XX) [citation] data manipulation library with the seaborn (version xx) [citation] and matplotlib (version XX) [citation] plotting libraries.
